Svanill
=============

An easily auditable html page to manage your sensitive data.

One file, no dependencies. If you trust the browser internals you just have to audit this file.

It's small, you can review it (or ask a developer to do it for you), then you can either keep a copy with yourself or fork this project.

You can either use it from a local copy or from a version that you stored in a trusted place (e.g. github pages on your own account).

You don't need to fork the project: just download the main file, it's a simple html page, without external dependencies.

Goals
=====

- have the means to manage secrets
- have a single-file application that can run locally
- it must be portable (Linux, Windows, Android, macOS, ...)
- it must be usable as-is, given a not-too-old browser
- it must not have external dependencies
- the source code must be easily auditable by one person in a short time
- optional outgoing network requests must always send data encrypted client-side

Non goals
=========
- write the smallest possible file sacrificing documentation or readability
- give the ability to upload to more than one location at once

Undecided goals
===============
- store binary files
- handle multiple files

Use cases
=========
- You don't trust any software without reviewing it yourself, at every update
- End up in a situation where you need to access/decrypt your data from a computer you don't own
  (you feel ok to open your data on a browser - possibly incognito mode, no extensions)
- Want to share something privately, passing the secret on a different channel

F.A.Q.
======

# How is content encrypted?

Content is encrypted using AES-GCM. The size of the iv/nonce is 96 bit, generated by [window.crypto.getRandomValues()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RandomSource/getRandomValues) (the PRNG is suitable for cryptographic usages).
The key is derived with PBKDF2, using SHA-256 as hash, 60.000 iterations (default, editable).
The salt is a random 16 chars hex string, generated before any encryption.
Salt and iterations are not expected to be kept secret, they are part of the additional data of the produced ciphertext.

# Why PBKDF2 instead of Argon2?

Argon2 is not part of the Web Cryptography API.

# Why don't you use libsodium?

It would require an external dependency, pretty much inscrutable and with issues in verifying its authenticity.

# Why not Bitwarden

Impressive product, they open source everything from mobile app to website vault.
It just doesn't match our goals.

# Why not Enpass

Very interesting product. Standalone support, truly comprehensive cross-platform versions, stores the data using SQLCipher (which is open source) and never stores your data online.
Doesn't match our goals.


# Why not Lastpass / 1Password?

Both are closed source and not auditable by an independent external auditor. 
1Password also has never committed to a first class Linux application, and after 10 years likely never will.

# Why not Keypass

Too big to audit for a solo developer. Keypass 1.x was audited, but Keypass 2.x was not and, cit. keypass.info, "They are fundamentally different". No official/audited Android application.
Yet it's respected and full featured if that's what you're searching for.

# Why not pass

Requires to keep around a gpg private key. No official/audited Android application.

License
=======

Vanillacrypto, a tool to encrypt/decrypt sensitive data.
Copyright (C) 2017 Riccardo Attilio Galli

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
